# Introduction
Documentation on Kubernetes deprecated APIs can be found in the [Deprecated API Migration Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/). That being said, it has been found that APIs have been deprecated that do not appear in this document. The first section of this document describes how to generate a complete list of available Kubernetes APIs for a given Kubernetes version. This list can be compared to lists generated for newer versions of Kubernetes in order to find deprecated APIs.
# List of Deprecated APIs
The lists were generated by the [scripts/deprecated-by-release.sh](./scripts/deprecated-by-release.sh) script that create Kubernetes clusters using the [kind](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kind/) Kubernetes implementation gathers all available APIs and compares the list with the previous release.

The results of the script can be found in the [deprecated](./deprecated) directory.

# Identifying Deprecated APIs by Request Counts
Run the script `scripts/find-deprecated-apis-by-requestcount.sh` and pass as an argument the deprecated API list generated from the step above or created manually. In order to find all deprecated APIs from Kubernetes 1.22 to 1.27 run:
```bash
cat deprecated/*.txt > deprecated-apis.txt
scripts/find-deprecated-apis-by-requestcount.sh deprecated-apis.txt
```
Check the output of the for lines similar to:
```
=== ingresses.v1beta1.extensions ===
VERBS       USERNAME                        USERAGENT
list watch  system:kube-controller-manager  cluster-policy-controller/v0.0.0
list watch  system:kube-controller-manager  kube-controller-manager/v1.21.8+ed4d8fd
```
Messages of the form `Error from server (NotFound)` can be ignored.

Refer to the document [Preparing to upgrade to OpenShift Container Platform 4.9](https://access.redhat.com/articles/6329921) regarding which messages can be ignored.

# Identifying Deprecated APIs by Request Counts
Usage of this script is not recommended as it will generate statistics in the `Request Counts` described in the section above.

In order to find deprecated APIs that are currently in use run:
```bash
scripts/find-deprecated-apis-by-usage.sh deprecated-apis.txt
```